yjr 
 
THE NEW MIDDLE PASSAGE

The Middle Passage refers to the part of the slave trade where Africans, densely packed onto ships, were transported across the Atlantic to the West Indies from about 1699 to 1845.  The voyage took three to four months and, during this time, the enslaved people mostly lay chained in rows on the floor of the hold or on shelves that ran around the inside of the ships' hulls.
The shelves were under a foot high, and often the enslaved people could not sit up. There could be up to more than 600 enslaved people on each ship. Captives from different nations were mixed together, so it was more difficult for them to talk and plan rebellions. 
So, what is the “New Middle Passage,” the U.S. border with Mexico.  Wait, hold on a second here.  I am a black man who can trace his family back seven generations in America.  Every time I hear people compare illegal immigrant rights or LGBT rights, or anything else to the 1960s civil rights struggle of my grandparents and parents I get pissed. It always poor taste or lack of perspective on the part of the writer or talking heads making that stupid point.  So, I will not make that same mistake. “The Middle Passage” and “The Border Crisis” are apples and oranges however, the people involved have the same result.
Result 1 Sex Slaves
Women and children who cross the border illegal come in two main flavors the first sex slaves and/or rape victims.  Why is this not in the news every night? Where are the "Me Too" stars for the Central American child sex slaves?  The answer, as far as I can tell if you cover this portion of their plight you are called a racist.  But if you ask me making laws that help criminals put women and children into sex slavery is beyond wrong.
To go back to the middle passage comparison rape was the fate of almost all enslaved black women before, during and after the middle passage, like 60% of women illegally crossing the border. 
Result 2 Second Class Citizen        
Including visa overstays, illegal immigrants are in a position of weakness when it comes to power to negotiate for their full value to employers, the best price for products, or the situation for housing.  Thus, without breaking additional laws, they are relegated to having to settle for less than what they deserve. Yes, for some or even many it is more then they could have in their country, but here they are being exploited are even worst are depended on the government. 
Like my ancestor who survived the middle passage to live a life on indignity and oppression. Followed by laws to “help” them which are chains we are still trying to shake off.  We are standing by some in silence other patting themselves on the back while the same thing happens to our brown brothers and sisters.
Go Back to 1845
The Middle Passage supplied the New World with its workforce and brought enormous profits to international slave traders. At the same time, it exacted a terrible price in physical and emotional anguish on the part of the uprooted Africans; it was distinguished by the callousness to human suffering it developed among the traders. 
This is happing to the U.S. because of illegal immigration.  We overlook the suffering of illegal immigrants. Most people see them as a means only.  Means to getting votes means to virtue signaling, means to get money the desperate and lastly a means to hide drugs and slave trafficking. We need to act like it is 1845 and end this crime against humanity.          

This is happing to the U.S. because of illegal immigration.  We overlook the suffering of illegal immigrants. Most people see them as a means only.  Means to getting votes means to virtue signaling, means to get money the desperate and lastly a means to hide drugs and slave trafficking. We need to act like it is 1845 and end this crime against humanity.          